README.md, before:

# YOLOv9

Implementation of paper - [YOLOv9: Learning What You Want to Learn Using Programmable Gradient Information](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13616)

[![arxiv.org](http://img.shields.io/badge/cs.CV-arXiv%3A2402.13616-B31B1B.svg)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13616)
[![Hugging Face Spaces](https://img.shields.io/badge/%F0%9F%A4%97%20Hugging%20Face-Spaces-blue)](https://huggingface.co/spaces/kadirnar/Yolov9)
[![Hugging Face Spaces](https://img.shields.io/badge/%F0%9F%A4%97%20Hugging%20Face-Spaces-blue)](https://huggingface.co/merve/yolov9)
[![Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/roboflow-ai/notebooks/blob/main/notebooks/train-yolov9-object-detection-on-custom-dataset.ipynb)
[![OpenCV](https://img.shields.io/badge/OpenCV-BlogPost-black?logo=opencv&labelColor=blue&color=black)](https://learnopencv.com/yolov9-advancing-the-yolo-legacy/)
[![YouTube Tutorial by SkalskiP](https://badges.aleen42.com/src/youtube.svg)](https://youtu.be/XHT2c8jT3Bc)

<div align="center">
    <a href="./">
        <img src="./figure/performance.png" width="79%"/>
    </a>
</div>


## Performance 

MS COCO

| Model | Test Size | AP<sup>val</sup> | AP<sub>50</sub><sup>val</sup> | AP<sub>75</sub><sup>val</sup> | Param. | FLOPs |
| :-- | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: |
| [**YOLOv9-T**](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/releases/download/v0.1/yolov9-t-converted.pt) | 640 | **38.3%** | **53.1%** | **41.3%** | **2.0M** | **7.7G** |
| [**YOLOv9-S**](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/releases/download/v0.1/yolov9-s-converted.pt) | 640 | **46.8%** | **63.4%** | **50.7%** | **7.1M** | **26.4G** |
| [**YOLOv9-M**](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/releases/download/v0.1/yolov9-m-converted.pt) | 640 | **51.4%** | **68.1%** | **56.1%** | **20.0M** | **76.3G** |
| [**YOLOv9-C**](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/releases/download/v0.1/yolov9-c-converted.pt) | 640 | **53.0%** | **70.2%** | **57.8%** | **25.3M** | **102.1G** |
| [**YOLOv9-E**](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/releases/download/v0.1/yolov9-e-converted.pt) | 640 | **55.6%** | **72.8%** | **60.6%** | **57.3M** | **189.0G** |

## Useful Links

<details><summary> <b>Expand</b> </summary>

Custom training: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/30#issuecomment-1960955297
    
ONNX export: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/2#issuecomment-1960519506 https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/40#issue-2150697688 https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/130#issue-2162045461

ONNX export for segmentation: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/260#issue-2191162150

TensorRT inference: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/143#issuecomment-1975049660 https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/34#issue-2150393690 https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/79#issue-2153547004 https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/143#issue-2164002309

QAT TensorRT: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/327#issue-2229284136 https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/253#issue-2189520073

TensorRT inference for segmentation: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/446

TFLite: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/374#issuecomment-2065751706

OpenVINO: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/164#issue-2168540003

C# ONNX inference: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/95#issue-2155974619

C# OpenVINO inference: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/95#issuecomment-1968131244

OpenCV: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/113#issuecomment-1971327672

Hugging Face demo: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/45#issuecomment-1961496943

CoLab demo: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/pull/18

ONNXSlim export: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/pull/37

YOLOv9 ROS: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/144#issue-2164210644

YOLOv9 ROS TensorRT: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/145#issue-2164218595

YOLOv9 Julia: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/141#issuecomment-1973710107

YOLOv9 MLX: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/258#issue-2190586540

YOLOv9 StrongSORT with OSNet: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/299#issue-2212093340

YOLOv9 ByteTrack: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/78#issue-2153512879

YOLOv9 DeepSORT: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/98#issue-2156172319

YOLOv9 counting: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/84#issue-2153904804

YOLOv9 speed estimation: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/456

YOLOv9 face detection: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/121#issue-2160218766

YOLOv9 segmentation onnxruntime: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/151#issue-2165667350

Comet logging: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/pull/110

MLflow logging: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/pull/87

AnyLabeling tool: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/48#issue-2152139662

AX650N deploy: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/96#issue-2156115760

Conda environment: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/pull/93

AutoDL docker environment: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/112#issue-2158203480

</details>


## Installation

Docker environment (recommended)
<details><summary> <b>Expand</b> </summary>

``` shell
# create the docker container, you can change the share memory size if you have more.
nvidia-docker run --name yolov9 -it -v your_coco_path/:/coco/ -v your_code_path/:/yolov9 --shm-size=64g nvcr.io/nvidia/pytorch:21.11-py3

# apt install required packages
apt update
apt install -y zip htop screen libgl1-mesa-glx

# pip install required packages
pip install seaborn thop

# go to code folder
cd /yolov9
```

</details>


## Evaluation
[`yolov9-t-converted.pt`](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/releases/download/v0.1/yolov9-t-converted.pt) 
[`yolov9-s-converted.pt`](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/releases/download/v0.1/yolov9-s-converted.pt) 
[`yolov9-m-converted.pt`](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/releases/download/v0.1/yolov9-m-converted.pt) 
[`yolov9-c-converted.pt`](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/releases/download/v0.1/yolov9-c-converted.pt) 
[`yolov9-e-converted.pt`](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/releases/download/v0.1/yolov9-e-converted.pt) 

[`yolov9-s.pt`](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/releases/download/v0.1/yolov9-s.pt)
[`yolov9-m.pt`](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/releases/download/v0.1/yolov9-m.pt)
[`yolov9-c.pt`](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/releases/download/v0.1/yolov9-c.pt)
[`yolov9-e.pt`](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/releases/download/v0.1/yolov9-e.pt) 

[`gelan-s.pt`](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/releases/download/v0.1/gelan-s.pt) 
[`gelan-m.pt`](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/releases/download/v0.1/gelan-m.pt)
[`gelan-c.pt`](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/releases/download/v0.1/gelan-c.pt)
[`gelan-e.pt`](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/releases/download/v0.1/gelan-e.pt)

```shell
# evaluate converted yolov9 models
python val_dual.py --data data/coco.yaml --img 640 --batch 32 --conf 0.001 --iou 0.7 --device 0 --weights './yolov9-c-converted.pt' --save-json --name yolov9_c_c_640_val

# evaluate yolov9 models
python val_dual.py --data data/coco.yaml --img 640 --batch 32 --conf 0.001 --iou 0.7 --device 0 --weights './yolov9-c.pt' --save-json --name yolov9_c_640_val

# evaluate gelan models
python val.py --data data/coco.yaml --img 640 --batch 32 --conf 0.001 --iou 0.7 --device 0 --weights './gelan-c.pt' --save-json --name gelan_c_640_val
```

Result:
```
 Average Precision  (AP) @[ IoU=0.50:0.95 | area=   all | maxDets=100 ] = 0.530
 Average Precision  (AP) @[ IoU=0.50      | area=   all | maxDets=100 ] = 0.702
 Average Precision  (AP) @[ IoU=0.75      | area=   all | maxDets=100 ] = 0.578
 Average Precision  (AP) @[ IoU=0.50:0.95 | area= small | maxDets=100 ] = 0.362
 Average Precision  (AP) @[ IoU=0.50:0.95 | area=medium | maxDets=100 ] = 0.585
 Average Precision  (AP) @[ IoU=0.50:0.95 | area= large | maxDets=100 ] = 0.693
 Average Recall     (AR) @[ IoU=0.50:0.95 | area=   all | maxDets=  1 ] = 0.392
 Average Recall     (AR) @[ IoU=0.50:0.95 | area=   all | maxDets= 10 ] = 0.652
 Average Recall     (AR) @[ IoU=0.50:0.95 | area=   all | maxDets=100 ] = 0.702
 Average Recall     (AR) @[ IoU=0.50:0.95 | area= small | maxDets=100 ] = 0.541
 Average Recall     (AR) @[ IoU=0.50:0.95 | area=medium | maxDets=100 ] = 0.760
 Average Recall     (AR) @[ IoU=0.50:0.95 | area= large | maxDets=100 ] = 0.844
```


## Training

Data preparation

``` shell
bash scripts/get_coco.sh
```

* Download MS COCO dataset images ([train](http://images.cocodataset.org/zips/train2017.zip), [val](http://images.cocodataset.org/zips/val2017.zip), [test](http://images.cocodataset.org/zips/test2017.zip)) and [labels](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov7/releases/download/v0.1/coco2017labels-segments.zip). If you have previously used a different version of YOLO, we strongly recommend that you delete `train2017.cache` and `val2017.cache` files, and redownload [labels](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov7/releases/download/v0.1/coco2017labels-segments.zip) 

Single GPU training

``` shell
# train yolov9 models
python train_dual.py --workers 8 --device 0 --batch 16 --data data/coco.yaml --img 640 --cfg models/detect/yolov9-c.yaml --weights '' --name yolov9-c --hyp hyp.scratch-high.yaml --min-items 0 --epochs 500 --close-mosaic 15

# train gelan models
python train.py --workers 8 --device 0 --batch 32 --data data/coco.yaml --img 640 --cfg models/detect/gelan-c.yaml --weights '' --name gelan-c --hyp hyp.scratch-high.yaml --min-items 0 --epochs 500 --close-mosaic 15
```

Multiple GPU training
``` shell
# train yolov9 models
torchrun --nproc_per_node 8 --master_port 9527 train_dual.py --workers 8 --device 0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7 --sync-bn --batch 128 --data data/coco.yaml --img 640 --cfg models/detect/yolov9-c.yaml --weights '' --name yolov9-c --hyp hyp.scratch-high.yaml --min-items 0 --epochs 500 --close-mosaic 15

# train gelan models
torchrun --nproc_per_node 4 --master_port 9527 train.py --workers 8 --device 0,1,2,3 --sync-bn --batch 128 --data data/coco.yaml --img 640 --cfg models/detect/gelan-c.yaml --weights '' --name gelan-c --hyp hyp.scratch-high.yaml --min-items 0 --epochs 500 --close-mosaic 15
```


## Re-parameterization

See [reparameterization.ipynb](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/blob/main/tools/reparameterization.ipynb).


## Inference

<div align="center">
    <a href="./">
        <img src="./figure/horses_prediction.jpg" width="49%"/>
    </a>
</div>

``` shell
# inference converted yolov9 models
python detect.py --source './data/images/horses.jpg' --img 640 --device 0 --weights './yolov9-c-converted.pt' --name yolov9_c_c_640_detect

# inference yolov9 models
python detect_dual.py --source './data/images/horses.jpg' --img 640 --device 0 --weights './yolov9-c.pt' --name yolov9_c_640_detect

# inference gelan models
python detect.py --source './data/images/horses.jpg' --img 640 --device 0 --weights './gelan-c.pt' --name gelan_c_c_640_detect
```


## Citation

```
@article{wang2024yolov9,
  title={{YOLOv9}: Learning What You Want to Learn Using Programmable Gradient Information},
  author={Wang, Chien-Yao  and Liao, Hong-Yuan Mark},
  booktitle={arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.13616},
  year={2024}
}
```

```
@article{chang2023yolor,
  title={{YOLOR}-Based Multi-Task Learning},
  author={Chang, Hung-Shuo and Wang, Chien-Yao and Wang, Richard Robert and Chou, Gene and Liao, Hong-Yuan Mark},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.16921},
  year={2023}
}
```


## Teaser

Parts of code of [YOLOR-Based Multi-Task Learning](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.16921) are released in the repository.

<div align="center">
    <a href="./">
        <img src="./figure/multitask.png" width="99%"/>
    </a>
</div>

#### Object Detection

[`gelan-c-det.pt`](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/releases/download/v0.1/gelan-c-det.pt)

`object detection`

``` shell
# coco/labels/{split}/*.txt
# bbox or polygon (1 instance 1 line)
python train.py --workers 8 --device 0 --batch 32 --data data/coco.yaml --img 640 --cfg models/detect/gelan-c.yaml --weights '' --name gelan-c-det --hyp hyp.scratch-high.yaml --min-items 0 --epochs 300 --close-mosaic 10
```

| Model | Test Size | Param. | FLOPs | AP<sup>box</sup> |
| :-- | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: |
| [**GELAN-C-DET**](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/releases/download/v0.1/gelan-c-det.pt) | 640 | 25.3M | 102.1G |**52.3%** |
| [**YOLOv9-C-DET**]() | 640 | 25.3M | 102.1G | **53.0%** |

#### Instance Segmentation

[`gelan-c-seg.pt`](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/releases/download/v0.1/gelan-c-seg.pt)

`object detection` `instance segmentation`

``` shell
# coco/labels/{split}/*.txt
# polygon (1 instance 1 line)
python segment/train.py --workers 8 --device 0 --batch 32  --data coco.yaml --img 640 --cfg models/segment/gelan-c-seg.yaml --weights '' --name gelan-c-seg --hyp hyp.scratch-high.yaml --no-overlap --epochs 300 --close-mosaic 10
```

| Model | Test Size | Param. | FLOPs | AP<sup>box</sup> | AP<sup>mask</sup>  |
| :-- | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: |
| [**GELAN-C-SEG**](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/releases/download/v0.1/gelan-c-seg.pt) | 640 | 27.4M | 144.6G | **52.3%** | **42.4%** |
| [**YOLOv9-C-SEG**]() | 640 | 27.4M | 145.5G | **53.3%** | **43.5%** |

#### Panoptic Segmentation

[`gelan-c-pan.pt`](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/releases/download/v0.1/gelan-c-pan.pt)

`object detection` `instance segmentation` `semantic segmentation` `stuff segmentation` `panoptic segmentation`

``` shell
# coco/labels/{split}/*.txt
# polygon (1 instance 1 line)
# coco/stuff/{split}/*.txt
# polygon (1 semantic 1 line)
python panoptic/train.py --workers 8 --device 0 --batch 32  --data coco.yaml --img 640 --cfg models/panoptic/gelan-c-pan.yaml --weights '' --name gelan-c-pan --hyp hyp.scratch-high.yaml --no-overlap --epochs 300 --close-mosaic 10
```

| Model | Test Size | Param. | FLOPs | AP<sup>box</sup> | AP<sup>mask</sup>  | mIoU<sub>164k/10k</sub><sup>semantic</sup> | mIoU<sup>stuff</sup> | PQ<sup>panoptic</sup> |
| :-- | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: |
| [**GELAN-C-PAN**](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/releases/download/v0.1/gelan-c-pan.pt) | 640 | 27.6M | 146.7G | **52.6%** | **42.5%** | **39.0%/48.3%** | **52.7%** | **39.4%** |
| [**YOLOv9-C-PAN**]() | 640 | 28.8M | 187.0G | **52.7%** | **43.0%** | **39.8%/-** | **52.2%** | **40.5%** |

#### Image Captioning (not yet released)

<!--[`gelan-c-cap.pt`]()-->

`object detection` `instance segmentation` `semantic segmentation` `stuff segmentation` `panoptic segmentation` `image captioning`

``` shell
# coco/labels/{split}/*.txt
# polygon (1 instance 1 line)
# coco/stuff/{split}/*.txt
# polygon (1 semantic 1 line)
# coco/annotations/*.json
# json (1 split 1 file)
python caption/train.py --workers 8 --device 0 --batch 32  --data coco.yaml --img 640 --cfg models/caption/gelan-c-cap.yaml --weights '' --name gelan-c-cap --hyp hyp.scratch-high.yaml --no-overlap --epochs 300 --close-mosaic 10
```

| Model | Test Size | Param. | FLOPs |  AP<sup>box</sup> | AP<sup>mask</sup>  | mIoU<sub>164k/10k</sub><sup>semantic</sup>  | mIoU<sup>stuff</sup> | PQ<sup>panoptic</sup> | BLEU@4<sup>caption</sup> | CIDEr<sup>caption</sup> |
| :-- | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: |
| [**GELAN-C-CAP**]() | 640 | 47.5M | - | **51.9%** | **42.6%** | **42.5%/-** | **56.5%** | **41.7%** | **38.8** | **122.3** |
| [**YOLOv9-C-CAP**]() | 640 | 47.5M | - | **52.1%** | **42.6%** | **43.0%/-** | **56.4%** | **42.1%** | **39.1** | **122.0** |
<!--| [**YOLOR-MT**]() | 640 | 79.3M | - | **51.0%** | **41.7%** | **-/49.6%** | **55.9%** | **40.5%** | **35.7** | **112.7** |-->


## Acknowledgements

<details><summary> <b>Expand</b> </summary>

* [https://github.com/AlexeyAB/darknet](https://github.com/AlexeyAB/darknet)
* [https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolor](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolor)
* [https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov7](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov7)
* [https://github.com/VDIGPKU/DynamicDet](https://github.com/VDIGPKU/DynamicDet)
* [https://github.com/DingXiaoH/RepVGG](https://github.com/DingXiaoH/RepVGG)
* [https://github.com/ultralytics/yolov5](https://github.com/ultralytics/yolov5)
* [https://github.com/meituan/YOLOv6](https://github.com/meituan/YOLOv6)

</details>

Commit message:

update readme: how to install dependencies

README.md, after:

# YOLOv9

Implementation of paper - [YOLOv9: Learning What You Want to Learn Using Programmable Gradient Information](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13616)

[![arxiv.org](http://img.shields.io/badge/cs.CV-arXiv%3A2402.13616-B31B1B.svg)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13616)
[![Hugging Face Spaces](https://img.shields.io/badge/%F0%9F%A4%97%20Hugging%20Face-Spaces-blue)](https://huggingface.co/spaces/kadirnar/Yolov9)
[![Hugging Face Spaces](https://img.shields.io/badge/%F0%9F%A4%97%20Hugging%20Face-Spaces-blue)](https://huggingface.co/merve/yolov9)
[![Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/roboflow-ai/notebooks/blob/main/notebooks/train-yolov9-object-detection-on-custom-dataset.ipynb)
[![OpenCV](https://img.shields.io/badge/OpenCV-BlogPost-black?logo=opencv&labelColor=blue&color=black)](https://learnopencv.com/yolov9-advancing-the-yolo-legacy/)
[![YouTube Tutorial by SkalskiP](https://badges.aleen42.com/src/youtube.svg)](https://youtu.be/XHT2c8jT3Bc)

<div align="center">
    <a href="./">
        <img src="./figure/performance.png" width="79%"/>
    </a>
</div>


## Performance 

MS COCO

| Model | Test Size | AP<sup>val</sup> | AP<sub>50</sub><sup>val</sup> | AP<sub>75</sub><sup>val</sup> | Param. | FLOPs |
| :-- | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: |
| [**YOLOv9-T**](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/releases/download/v0.1/yolov9-t-converted.pt) | 640 | **38.3%** | **53.1%** | **41.3%** | **2.0M** | **7.7G** |
| [**YOLOv9-S**](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/releases/download/v0.1/yolov9-s-converted.pt) | 640 | **46.8%** | **63.4%** | **50.7%** | **7.1M** | **26.4G** |
| [**YOLOv9-M**](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/releases/download/v0.1/yolov9-m-converted.pt) | 640 | **51.4%** | **68.1%** | **56.1%** | **20.0M** | **76.3G** |
| [**YOLOv9-C**](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/releases/download/v0.1/yolov9-c-converted.pt) | 640 | **53.0%** | **70.2%** | **57.8%** | **25.3M** | **102.1G** |
| [**YOLOv9-E**](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/releases/download/v0.1/yolov9-e-converted.pt) | 640 | **55.6%** | **72.8%** | **60.6%** | **57.3M** | **189.0G** |

## Useful Links

<details><summary> <b>Expand</b> </summary>

Custom training: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/30#issuecomment-1960955297
    
ONNX export: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/2#issuecomment-1960519506 https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/40#issue-2150697688 https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/130#issue-2162045461

ONNX export for segmentation: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/260#issue-2191162150

TensorRT inference: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/143#issuecomment-1975049660 https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/34#issue-2150393690 https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/79#issue-2153547004 https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/143#issue-2164002309

QAT TensorRT: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/327#issue-2229284136 https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/253#issue-2189520073

TensorRT inference for segmentation: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/446

TFLite: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/374#issuecomment-2065751706

OpenVINO: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/164#issue-2168540003

C# ONNX inference: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/95#issue-2155974619

C# OpenVINO inference: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/95#issuecomment-1968131244

OpenCV: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/113#issuecomment-1971327672

Hugging Face demo: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/45#issuecomment-1961496943

CoLab demo: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/pull/18

ONNXSlim export: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/pull/37

YOLOv9 ROS: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/144#issue-2164210644

YOLOv9 ROS TensorRT: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/145#issue-2164218595

YOLOv9 Julia: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/141#issuecomment-1973710107

YOLOv9 MLX: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/258#issue-2190586540

YOLOv9 StrongSORT with OSNet: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/299#issue-2212093340

YOLOv9 ByteTrack: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/78#issue-2153512879

YOLOv9 DeepSORT: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/98#issue-2156172319

YOLOv9 counting: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/84#issue-2153904804

YOLOv9 speed estimation: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/456

YOLOv9 face detection: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/121#issue-2160218766

YOLOv9 segmentation onnxruntime: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/151#issue-2165667350

Comet logging: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/pull/110

MLflow logging: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/pull/87

AnyLabeling tool: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/48#issue-2152139662

AX650N deploy: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/96#issue-2156115760

Conda environment: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/pull/93

AutoDL docker environment: https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/issues/112#issue-2158203480

</details>


## Install dependencies

This step below is needed if you want to modify existing code locally.
It works on Python 3.13, but not on 3.14.
To train custom model, it is strongly suggested to use Google Colab as it needs ~20GB VRAM GPU. 

```
python3.13 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
pip3.13 install -r requirements.txt
```

## Installation

Docker environment (recommended)
<details><summary> <b>Expand</b> </summary>

``` shell
# create the docker container, you can change the share memory size if you have more.
nvidia-docker run --name yolov9 -it -v your_coco_path/:/coco/ -v your_code_path/:/yolov9 --shm-size=64g nvcr.io/nvidia/pytorch:21.11-py3

# apt install required packages
apt update
apt install -y zip htop screen libgl1-mesa-glx

# pip install required packages
pip install seaborn thop

# go to code folder
cd /yolov9
```

</details>


## Evaluation
[`yolov9-t-converted.pt`](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/releases/download/v0.1/yolov9-t-converted.pt) 
[`yolov9-s-converted.pt`](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/releases/download/v0.1/yolov9-s-converted.pt) 
[`yolov9-m-converted.pt`](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/releases/download/v0.1/yolov9-m-converted.pt) 
[`yolov9-c-converted.pt`](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/releases/download/v0.1/yolov9-c-converted.pt) 
[`yolov9-e-converted.pt`](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/releases/download/v0.1/yolov9-e-converted.pt) 

[`yolov9-s.pt`](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/releases/download/v0.1/yolov9-s.pt)
[`yolov9-m.pt`](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/releases/download/v0.1/yolov9-m.pt)
[`yolov9-c.pt`](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/releases/download/v0.1/yolov9-c.pt)
[`yolov9-e.pt`](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/releases/download/v0.1/yolov9-e.pt) 

[`gelan-s.pt`](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/releases/download/v0.1/gelan-s.pt) 
[`gelan-m.pt`](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/releases/download/v0.1/gelan-m.pt)
[`gelan-c.pt`](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/releases/download/v0.1/gelan-c.pt)
[`gelan-e.pt`](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/releases/download/v0.1/gelan-e.pt)

```shell
# evaluate converted yolov9 models
python val_dual.py --data data/coco.yaml --img 640 --batch 32 --conf 0.001 --iou 0.7 --device 0 --weights './yolov9-c-converted.pt' --save-json --name yolov9_c_c_640_val

# evaluate yolov9 models
python val_dual.py --data data/coco.yaml --img 640 --batch 32 --conf 0.001 --iou 0.7 --device 0 --weights './yolov9-c.pt' --save-json --name yolov9_c_640_val

# evaluate gelan models
python val.py --data data/coco.yaml --img 640 --batch 32 --conf 0.001 --iou 0.7 --device 0 --weights './gelan-c.pt' --save-json --name gelan_c_640_val
```

Result:
```
 Average Precision  (AP) @[ IoU=0.50:0.95 | area=   all | maxDets=100 ] = 0.530
 Average Precision  (AP) @[ IoU=0.50      | area=   all | maxDets=100 ] = 0.702
 Average Precision  (AP) @[ IoU=0.75      | area=   all | maxDets=100 ] = 0.578
 Average Precision  (AP) @[ IoU=0.50:0.95 | area= small | maxDets=100 ] = 0.362
 Average Precision  (AP) @[ IoU=0.50:0.95 | area=medium | maxDets=100 ] = 0.585
 Average Precision  (AP) @[ IoU=0.50:0.95 | area= large | maxDets=100 ] = 0.693
 Average Recall     (AR) @[ IoU=0.50:0.95 | area=   all | maxDets=  1 ] = 0.392
 Average Recall     (AR) @[ IoU=0.50:0.95 | area=   all | maxDets= 10 ] = 0.652
 Average Recall     (AR) @[ IoU=0.50:0.95 | area=   all | maxDets=100 ] = 0.702
 Average Recall     (AR) @[ IoU=0.50:0.95 | area= small | maxDets=100 ] = 0.541
 Average Recall     (AR) @[ IoU=0.50:0.95 | area=medium | maxDets=100 ] = 0.760
 Average Recall     (AR) @[ IoU=0.50:0.95 | area= large | maxDets=100 ] = 0.844
```


## Training

Data preparation

``` shell
bash scripts/get_coco.sh
```

* Download MS COCO dataset images ([train](http://images.cocodataset.org/zips/train2017.zip), [val](http://images.cocodataset.org/zips/val2017.zip), [test](http://images.cocodataset.org/zips/test2017.zip)) and [labels](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov7/releases/download/v0.1/coco2017labels-segments.zip). If you have previously used a different version of YOLO, we strongly recommend that you delete `train2017.cache` and `val2017.cache` files, and redownload [labels](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov7/releases/download/v0.1/coco2017labels-segments.zip) 

Single GPU training

``` shell
# train yolov9 models
python train_dual.py --workers 8 --device 0 --batch 16 --data data/coco.yaml --img 640 --cfg models/detect/yolov9-c.yaml --weights '' --name yolov9-c --hyp hyp.scratch-high.yaml --min-items 0 --epochs 500 --close-mosaic 15

# train gelan models
python train.py --workers 8 --device 0 --batch 32 --data data/coco.yaml --img 640 --cfg models/detect/gelan-c.yaml --weights '' --name gelan-c --hyp hyp.scratch-high.yaml --min-items 0 --epochs 500 --close-mosaic 15
```

Multiple GPU training
``` shell
# train yolov9 models
torchrun --nproc_per_node 8 --master_port 9527 train_dual.py --workers 8 --device 0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7 --sync-bn --batch 128 --data data/coco.yaml --img 640 --cfg models/detect/yolov9-c.yaml --weights '' --name yolov9-c --hyp hyp.scratch-high.yaml --min-items 0 --epochs 500 --close-mosaic 15

# train gelan models
torchrun --nproc_per_node 4 --master_port 9527 train.py --workers 8 --device 0,1,2,3 --sync-bn --batch 128 --data data/coco.yaml --img 640 --cfg models/detect/gelan-c.yaml --weights '' --name gelan-c --hyp hyp.scratch-high.yaml --min-items 0 --epochs 500 --close-mosaic 15
```


## Re-parameterization

See [reparameterization.ipynb](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/blob/main/tools/reparameterization.ipynb).


## Inference

<div align="center">
    <a href="./">
        <img src="./figure/horses_prediction.jpg" width="49%"/>
    </a>
</div>

``` shell
# inference converted yolov9 models
python detect.py --source './data/images/horses.jpg' --img 640 --device 0 --weights './yolov9-c-converted.pt' --name yolov9_c_c_640_detect

# inference yolov9 models
python detect_dual.py --source './data/images/horses.jpg' --img 640 --device 0 --weights './yolov9-c.pt' --name yolov9_c_640_detect

# inference gelan models
python detect.py --source './data/images/horses.jpg' --img 640 --device 0 --weights './gelan-c.pt' --name gelan_c_c_640_detect
```


## Citation

```
@article{wang2024yolov9,
  title={{YOLOv9}: Learning What You Want to Learn Using Programmable Gradient Information},
  author={Wang, Chien-Yao  and Liao, Hong-Yuan Mark},
  booktitle={arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.13616},
  year={2024}
}
```

```
@article{chang2023yolor,
  title={{YOLOR}-Based Multi-Task Learning},
  author={Chang, Hung-Shuo and Wang, Chien-Yao and Wang, Richard Robert and Chou, Gene and Liao, Hong-Yuan Mark},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.16921},
  year={2023}
}
```


## Teaser

Parts of code of [YOLOR-Based Multi-Task Learning](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.16921) are released in the repository.

<div align="center">
    <a href="./">
        <img src="./figure/multitask.png" width="99%"/>
    </a>
</div>

#### Object Detection

[`gelan-c-det.pt`](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/releases/download/v0.1/gelan-c-det.pt)

`object detection`

``` shell
# coco/labels/{split}/*.txt
# bbox or polygon (1 instance 1 line)
python train.py --workers 8 --device 0 --batch 32 --data data/coco.yaml --img 640 --cfg models/detect/gelan-c.yaml --weights '' --name gelan-c-det --hyp hyp.scratch-high.yaml --min-items 0 --epochs 300 --close-mosaic 10
```

| Model | Test Size | Param. | FLOPs | AP<sup>box</sup> |
| :-- | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: |
| [**GELAN-C-DET**](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/releases/download/v0.1/gelan-c-det.pt) | 640 | 25.3M | 102.1G |**52.3%** |
| [**YOLOv9-C-DET**]() | 640 | 25.3M | 102.1G | **53.0%** |

#### Instance Segmentation

[`gelan-c-seg.pt`](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/releases/download/v0.1/gelan-c-seg.pt)

`object detection` `instance segmentation`

``` shell
# coco/labels/{split}/*.txt
# polygon (1 instance 1 line)
python segment/train.py --workers 8 --device 0 --batch 32  --data coco.yaml --img 640 --cfg models/segment/gelan-c-seg.yaml --weights '' --name gelan-c-seg --hyp hyp.scratch-high.yaml --no-overlap --epochs 300 --close-mosaic 10
```

| Model | Test Size | Param. | FLOPs | AP<sup>box</sup> | AP<sup>mask</sup>  |
| :-- | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: |
| [**GELAN-C-SEG**](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/releases/download/v0.1/gelan-c-seg.pt) | 640 | 27.4M | 144.6G | **52.3%** | **42.4%** |
| [**YOLOv9-C-SEG**]() | 640 | 27.4M | 145.5G | **53.3%** | **43.5%** |

#### Panoptic Segmentation

[`gelan-c-pan.pt`](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/releases/download/v0.1/gelan-c-pan.pt)

`object detection` `instance segmentation` `semantic segmentation` `stuff segmentation` `panoptic segmentation`

``` shell
# coco/labels/{split}/*.txt
# polygon (1 instance 1 line)
# coco/stuff/{split}/*.txt
# polygon (1 semantic 1 line)
python panoptic/train.py --workers 8 --device 0 --batch 32  --data coco.yaml --img 640 --cfg models/panoptic/gelan-c-pan.yaml --weights '' --name gelan-c-pan --hyp hyp.scratch-high.yaml --no-overlap --epochs 300 --close-mosaic 10
```

| Model | Test Size | Param. | FLOPs | AP<sup>box</sup> | AP<sup>mask</sup>  | mIoU<sub>164k/10k</sub><sup>semantic</sup> | mIoU<sup>stuff</sup> | PQ<sup>panoptic</sup> |
| :-- | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: |
| [**GELAN-C-PAN**](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov9/releases/download/v0.1/gelan-c-pan.pt) | 640 | 27.6M | 146.7G | **52.6%** | **42.5%** | **39.0%/48.3%** | **52.7%** | **39.4%** |
| [**YOLOv9-C-PAN**]() | 640 | 28.8M | 187.0G | **52.7%** | **43.0%** | **39.8%/-** | **52.2%** | **40.5%** |

#### Image Captioning (not yet released)

<!--[`gelan-c-cap.pt`]()-->

`object detection` `instance segmentation` `semantic segmentation` `stuff segmentation` `panoptic segmentation` `image captioning`

``` shell
# coco/labels/{split}/*.txt
# polygon (1 instance 1 line)
# coco/stuff/{split}/*.txt
# polygon (1 semantic 1 line)
# coco/annotations/*.json
# json (1 split 1 file)
python caption/train.py --workers 8 --device 0 --batch 32  --data coco.yaml --img 640 --cfg models/caption/gelan-c-cap.yaml --weights '' --name gelan-c-cap --hyp hyp.scratch-high.yaml --no-overlap --epochs 300 --close-mosaic 10
```

| Model | Test Size | Param. | FLOPs |  AP<sup>box</sup> | AP<sup>mask</sup>  | mIoU<sub>164k/10k</sub><sup>semantic</sup>  | mIoU<sup>stuff</sup> | PQ<sup>panoptic</sup> | BLEU@4<sup>caption</sup> | CIDEr<sup>caption</sup> |
| :-- | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: |
| [**GELAN-C-CAP**]() | 640 | 47.5M | - | **51.9%** | **42.6%** | **42.5%/-** | **56.5%** | **41.7%** | **38.8** | **122.3** |
| [**YOLOv9-C-CAP**]() | 640 | 47.5M | - | **52.1%** | **42.6%** | **43.0%/-** | **56.4%** | **42.1%** | **39.1** | **122.0** |
<!--| [**YOLOR-MT**]() | 640 | 79.3M | - | **51.0%** | **41.7%** | **-/49.6%** | **55.9%** | **40.5%** | **35.7** | **112.7** |-->


## Acknowledgements

<details><summary> <b>Expand</b> </summary>

* [https://github.com/AlexeyAB/darknet](https://github.com/AlexeyAB/darknet)
* [https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolor](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolor)
* [https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov7](https://github.com/WongKinYiu/yolov7)
* [https://github.com/VDIGPKU/DynamicDet](https://github.com/VDIGPKU/DynamicDet)
* [https://github.com/DingXiaoH/RepVGG](https://github.com/DingXiaoH/RepVGG)
* [https://github.com/ultralytics/yolov5](https://github.com/ultralytics/yolov5)
* [https://github.com/meituan/YOLOv6](https://github.com/meituan/YOLOv6)

</details>
